.\" $NHDT-Branch: master $:$NHDT-Revision: 1.14 $ $NHDT-Date: 1735103831 2024/12/25 00:17:11 $
.\"DO NOT REMOVE NH_DATESUB .TH DLB 6 "Date(%-d %B %Y)" Project(uc)
.TH DLB 6 "25 December 2024" NETHACK
.\"DO NOT REMOVE NH_DATESUB .ds Nd Date(%Y)
.ds Nd 2024
.de NB
.ds Nb \\$2
..
.de NR
.ds Nr \\$2
..
.NB $NHDT-Branch: keni-gitset $
.NR $NHDT-Revision: 1.13 $
.\" groff and AT&T-descended troffs use different hyphenation patterns.
.\" Don't hyphenate the last word on a page or column, or
.\" before/after last/first 2 characters of a word.
.ie \n(.g .hy 12
.el       .hy 14
.ds Na Kenneth Lorber
.SH NAME
dlb \- NetHack data librarian
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dlb
.\" We'd use `RB` with 7 arguments, but Unix troff man(7) has a limit of
.\" 6 arguments to its macros.
{\c
.BR c | t | x\c
}\c
.RB [ v ]\c
.RB [ C
.IR directory ]
.RI [ file ]
\&.\|.\|.
.PP
.B dlb
{\c
.BR c | t | x\c
}\c
.RB [ v ]\c
.B I
.IR list-file
.PP
.B dlb
{\c
.BR c | t | x\c
}\c
.RB [ v ]\c
.RB [ f
.IR archive-file-name ]
.RI [ file ]
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Dlb
is a file archiving tool in the spirit (and tradition) of
.IR tar (1)
for
.IR xnethack (6)
version 3.1 and higher.
It is used to maintain the
archive files from which the game reads special level files and other
read-only information.
Note that like
.IR tar ,
the letters specifying the operation and options
are expressed as a continuous string.
Unlike
.IR tar ,
.I dlb
is configured with a default set of file names to process.
.ig
.PP
^?ALLDOCS
This facility is optional and may be excluded during NetHack
configuration.
^:
^?DLB
This facility is optional but is included in this NetHack
configuration.
^:
This facility is optional and was excluded from this NetHack
configuration.
^.
^.
..
.SS Operations
.B c
causes
.I dlb
to create a new archive from files in the current directory.
.PP
.B t
lists the files in the archive.
.PP
.B x
causes
.I dlb
to extract the contents of the archive into the current directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 13n \" "I list-file" + 2n
.BI "C " dir
Change directory to
.I dir
before trying to
read any files.
.TP
.BI "f " archive
Read from or write to
.I archive
instead of LIBFILE
(usually the
.I nhdat
file in the playground).
.TP
.BI "I " list-file
Read from
.I list-file
the names of files to emplace within or extract from the archive.
The default for archive creation is LIBLISTFILE.
.TP
.B v
Operate verbosely.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create the default archive from the default file list:
.RS
.EX
dlb c
.EE
.RE
.PP
List the contents of the archive
.IR foo :
.RS
.EX
dlb tf foo
.EE
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Kenneth Lorber
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR xnethack (6),
.IR tar (1)
.SH BUGS
.IP \(bu 2n
Not a good
.I tar
emulation;
.B -
does not mean stdin or stdout.
.IP \(bu
Should include an optional compression facility.
.IP \(bu
Not all read-only files for NetHack can be read out of an archive;
examining the source is the only way to know which files can be.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This file is Copyright (C) \*(Na, \*(Nd for version \*(Nb:\*(Nr.
NetHack may be freely redistributed.  See license for details.
